if you獄e been paying attention to the media frenzy that is the blair witch project , and who hasnケt , you know the story and you know itケs pure dramatization . needless to say , though , watching what has been committed to tape , one gets the undeniable impression the events are veritable : three students take hand- helds into the woods , filming a school project about the myth of a local witch , and get lost . no biggie , as the put-upon leader of their crew , heather , states rationally , " itケs hard to get lost in america , and itケs harder to stay lost . " what starts out fun and games , so to speak , amongst friends ( correct " gilliganケs island " vernacular ; heatherケs mishap with a pair of wet shoes ) quickly becomes something more serious . rations dwindle , their only map disappears , and camaraderie gradually disintegrates into bickering , nicotine jonesing and total disorientation . they set up camp , several times too often , and wake up to vague but ominous noises just in the distance . and , thatケs the ingenious thing of the film : the heard , yet unseen , proves to be a lot more terrifying . because , try as you may to put whatケs going on into perspective ( twigs snap . . probably a small animal ) , you still donケt know for certain . and , because there is little light for assistance , you can either stay in one place very quietly and pray , or make a run for it in the pitch black and take your chances . during heatherケs emotionally-draining private confessional for the camera , she sums this experience up quite nicely : " iケm afraid to close my eyes , and iケm afraid to open them . " whatケs also great about the film is its budget . the point of view footage is antsy , because the actors get antsy and donケt know exactly where to look or where theyケre going in the heat of apparent pursuit . i think blair witch will play even better on the small screen , because of its aspect ratio and the likelihood of a more quiet environment ; occasionally , i was unable to hear what the actors were hearing due to an audience loud with throat- clearing and squeaky seats , and it bugged me immensely . there is no special effects work , no computer-generated anything , and mostly no gory close-ups ( save for a set of teeth ) , which gives the film a great deal of authenticity . and , what i like most is the eerie conclusion ; that last scene , in an abandoned , dilapidated house , is nerve-wracking and more than a little disturbing . the collective opinion circulating the 從et at present is that this scene is too quick , and the film ends rather abruptly . which is true , but thatケs the point . it is heatherケs fear and despondence , come to the breaking point . after being in the woods for so long , and not knowing what would ultimately happen to them at any given moment ュ whether she , or her friends , would make it ュ she and mike arrive at one last spot , maze-like and frustrating , and in an instant itケs all over . you leave with questions , and want to talk about what youケve just witnessed with as many people as you can get it in a room . movies that can put you there have done their job ; real , or fake ( forget the whole is-it-a-sham-or-not business , already ) . that final image ュ you know the one ュ is cryptic and haunting . i wanted more scenes at night , with ュ not _clearer_ sounds , buti don鵠 know , more of them . even greater a building of exhaustion and fear . the film does not quite go the psychological distance , but itケs close . also , the arguing goes on a little much for my taste ( one fight , over the whereabouts of the map , turns especially shrill ) , though such carrying-on is understand- able , circumstances considered . " scary as hell " no . creepy , yes . effective , brilliantly- conceived and executed , and performed with all the conviction in the world so that even if we doubt what we穀e seeing is real , suspension of disbelief is never an issue : _oh yeah_ . best line : 90% improv equals no cleverly constructed dialogue ; i like the reaction heather has to a shot of scotch ( i hate it , too ) . 
