" southpark : bigger , longer , uncut " * * * before it runs out of steam toward the end , southpark ( which incidentally was cut to secure an r-rating ) is the funniest film of the year . by default ; there haven鵠 been many comedies , and certainly none this unabashedly obscene . and , right from the start , you know youケre in the hands of a couple filmmakers with a keen sense of humor , as kyle , stan , cartman and kenny head off to " a foreign film from canada " , via an hilarious disney rip-off show tune called " mountain town " . iconoclasm in place ; politics are next . the kids canケt get into the new terrance and phillip film , because it is r-rated ( for good reason ) and theyケre underage . tip , if you find yourself in a similar predicament : bribe the local bum , and no movie or ratings restriction is unbeatable . good thing they get in , too , as the incessantly profane five minutes we see next are a riot , full of as many fart noises and 彷ケ words as iケve seen in that short a time . then comes the hook : comedy central canケt run " southpark " in all its glory . so , once the boys leave their three-hour marathon of more bad language than they know what to do with , bigger , longer , is caution-to-the-wind cursing . not more than a lot of other r-rated films from , say , martin scorcese ュ like most people seem to be obsessing about ュ mind you . but , still ; the creativity with which these small fries spout about is , ah , a might off-setting . which takes only a few minutes to desensitize us to what weケre hearing ; i mean , really , you hear ten mutterings of " pig-fucker " or " shit-smeller " ( i may be a little inaccurate with those examples , but you get it ) , and youケve heard a lifetime . so , just being crude wouldnケt be enough . no , series creators trey parker and matt stone are not ones to rest on their considerable laurels , and thus , this southpark feature goes a step or two further with a clever storyline : the parents of our four young anti-heroes are shocked by their newfound vocabulary . a scapegoat is needed , but whom . canadians , of course . war is declared , terrance and phillip are taken hostage and their public execution planned out , and cartman ュ following his humorous ditty , " kyleケs momケs a bitch " , sung by members of several different nationalities ュ gets a chip put in his head that prevents further use of foul language through shock treatment . in the meantime , kenny suffers his usual death , goes to hell , where satan and sadam hussein are lovers , and satan is a big softie and wants to be able to communicate with his partner instead of just having sex all the time . but , nevermind . southpark is entertaining , on top of being sleazy , and that is to be commended . because it didnケt have to be as good as it is , and who knew . there are a fewscratch that , way too many songs ( some funny , some blah ) , and that酷 why i say the film wears out its welcome . before that happens , though , chances are you wonケt laugh more during any other movie this summer than you will , here . highlights : winona ryderケs performance with a ping-pong ball ; the untimely murder of bill gates ; that " uncle fucker " song from asses of fire ( oh . . my . . god ) ; cartmanケs improvisational use of his neural implant , to save the day . and , needless to say , getting to see the true face of kenny ; canケt beat that . 
