there are many things that we窶况e learned from computers . there are also many ways in which computers are helping people live their lives today . e-mail , instant messages , and 3-d heavy games are now a part of everyday life for most people in the country . game designers have come out with some pretty classic games such as starcraft , warcraft , everquest , and wing commander in the past couple of years . while starcraft might make a good movie , wing commander doesn窶冲 . the only thing i can come up with is that 20th century fox must have gotten together and said , 窶忤e have a lot of computers . so let窶冱 make a movie based off of a computer game , include bad computer generated effects , and make the characters have the dimension of their pc game counterparts . 窶 ? that窶冱 the only thing i can possibly think of that they must have been thinking because this film is easily one of the worst movies of the year . christopher blair ( prinze jr . ) has an encrypted cd with information pertaining to the destruction of a ship by the evil kilrahti , an alien race that wasn窶冲 to be dominant of the entire galaxy . kilrathi are strange looking wolf-type creatures who walk around in rooms with lots of fog and speak in techno font subtitles . when blair and his friend todd marshall ( matthew lillard , who once again proves that he cannot act ) get assigned to help beat the kilrathi , they become a fighter on the ship . so a bunch of space stuff that doesn窶冲 really have any significance happens , and then more of it happens , and then more until we really don窶冲 care much about what窶冱 happening on screen . most of the shots are of bad computer created ships leaving , taking off , and firing , always hitting their target . then for some reason , freddie has to leave his girl behind when she has to eject from her space plane . this of course is right before he has to make the jump that determines what happens in the end of the movie . ( you will ask yourself why he has to do this , you will also ask yourself why you ever wanted to see this movie . ) so he's up there in space worried and wondering whether his love will be dead or alive when he comes home . i know , i just gave away what happens in the end , but trust me , you won窶冲 care . the film contains horrible acting by everyone , there isn't one single exception , none , zero , nada . this isn窶冲 to say it窶冱 entirely the cast窶冱 fault , matthew lillard is giving some pretty bad lines , and freddie prinze doesn窶冲 have much to do . i think that i found the most compelling and interesting character to be mr . obutu , ( hugh quarshie ) an african-american ship navigator person , and that窶冱 only because of his name . the effects aren窶冲 very good at all , and the action scenes don窶冲 build any suspense , so we don窶冲 really care about the characters . besides , the script is filled with so many stereotypes ( the captain who doesn窶冲 believe everyone else , the good-hearted bad girl ) that you know what窶冱 going to happen from about the 35 minute point . if you love the game you will be extremely disappointed . heck , if you saw it in the theaters , at least the new star wars trailer was shown before it . that might make the experience a bit less painful . but if you consider renting it on video , ( what the heck is wrong with you ? ! ) i seriously recommend that you seek help because wing commander gets 1/2 a * . the young-uns : the film contains sci-fi action violence and a suggestive after sex scene . good age 12 & up a review by frankie paiva the teenage movie critic e-mail me at <a href= " mailto : swpstke@aol . com " >swpstke@aol . com</a> visit my website at <a href= " http : //www . homestead . com/teenagemoviecritic/mainpage . html " >http : //www . homestead . com/teenagemoviecritic/mainpage . html</a> 
